I couldn't believe you.
I was ready to receive this.
This is Roger Shatley, his family, the opera, who are asking me to say a few words about the great opera that Grace Hayes does.
She will speak to us, she will read to us, she will write down the other questions.
I'll say a few things, which is her art is not all an art of economy.
So, a nurse and I, as such a pupil here, can just measure up in what human voices mean and produce.
Somebody lent me her book, not such a very long ago, and I knew that this book was a writer who really mattered to the person who kindly lent me, in that this person was torn by the way that I should eat the book, and then I should return it.
I can see the similarities.
I did return it because I invested the book on it, invested it at Book of Writing.
And I then, the private office, so that the daughters of mine could share in this right with great conviction and great clarity.
Grace Bailey does this very, very company in the area tonight.
Thank you.
That's great.
Well, it works.
I want to read a couple of things.
The Phillips is at our point
Then I'm going to read a couple of stories of my own.
And then what I really would like to do is to answer questions about that.
And if you don't ask me the questions that I want to answer, I'll ask them myself.
Because it's always bad if you want to live a place and haven't said exactly what you wanted.
That's because of your beliefs and participatory democracy.
But I do want to begin with this.
And I read this from time to time, so don't take too many notes.
I've lost my voice at the end of the story, and somebody else had to finish it for me, so they end up in your own country.
Interesting things.
They're from the book called The Technicians of the Sacred.
There are a lot of work together.
Some of these translations are probably going to be slightly different.
And I think I've lost most of the rest of the book.
But these are from...
The statements on art and poetry by the first is, this one is on storytelling, that's why I want to read it.
The first one is on storytelling, the second one is on criticism, that's why I bring this all together.
This is a statement by Carlo, and after the Bushman,
I must first sit a little, holding my arms, but the fatigue may go out of them because I sit.
I do merely listen, watching for a story which I want to hear, while I sit waiting for it that it may flow into my ear.
These are those through which I am listening to all my ears while I feel that I sit silent.
I'm most late listening behind me while I listen along the road, while I feel that my name flows along the road.
They, my three names, flow backwards with my ears to my feet's heels on which I went, which I feel that the story is in the wind.
If the story is won't to flow along to another place, then our names do pass through those people while they do not perceive our bodies go along.
For our names are those which, floating, reach a different place.
The mountains lie between the two different roads.
A man's name passes behind the mountain's back.
Those names with which, returning, he goes forward.
This is an Aztec statement, which I kind of live by.
I mean, I hope I do.
You know, you don't always live by what you really think you do.
The artist, disciple, abundant, multiple, restless.
The true artist, capable, practicing, skillful.
maintains dialogue in his heart, meets things of the mind.
The true artist draws out all from the heart, works with delight, makes things with calm, with sagacity, works like a true pole deck, composes objects, works dexterously, invents, arranges material, adorns, makes them adjust.
They carry an artist, works at random, smears the people, makes things opaque, brushes across the surface of the face of things, works without care, defrauds people in the theater.
My mom,
I was talking to Roger about some of this and I was thinking about stories and can you open any back there by the way?
You told me about stories.
People are always saying to you, if you're a story writer, I mean, I don't say to you if you're a poet.
Nobody says to you if you're a poet, did Daniel speak a lot of poetry around the house?
If you're a story writer, everybody says, was there a real story, tell her at home?
This all comes from the whole history thing.
And so, I say no.
There wasn't, but everybody talked a lot.
And if everybody talks a lot, very often stories escape.
But there was never any intention for anybody to say, I will now tell you a story.
Sometimes people say,
You know what happened the other day, but that's as far as it went.
But in the midst of all the story and in the midst of thinking about stories, I did try to think about what stories I knew and I realized that I knew a lot of biblical stories.
And this was very odd because I came with a religiously atheistic family
And someone saw that, well, it was hard when I came over and I told my father that I had gone to services.
He really had been quite angry.
But at the same time, at the same time, our family were sort of typical Russian Jews, immigrants, socialists, with
with experiences in Russia, in Siberia and various other places of that sort.
And they came to this country when they were probably 20 or 21 and learned English pretty quickly because they learned Italian first.
I don't know why.
I think they lived in the kind of neighborhood of Paris.
Actually, it was my father.
But the thing about these stories was that with this anti-religious feeling that my family had with my father, we also had a very strong, I almost call it an attachment to being Jewish, but
a kind of lighting on it, I should say.
It was not something they didn't want, they didn't want.
So that I rather have inherited it, or at least felt good about it.
But I thought first of these biblical stories, and of course, when we talked about things to read, I thought maybe I'd read something.
But then I thought, everybody knows all those stories anyway.
And then when I thought that, I realized that there were a lot of stories people didn't know.
Particularly in Judges, which I came to like a whole lot, because it was so terrible, so local, so scary, so truth-telling,
you know, so on sentimentally.
And partly really because of that book, I tend to like the whole book even more, feeling that hardness in it and that determination
to tell the history of the way, the old way it really happened, how life was lived, and how long Google was.
And not too long it is, you know?
And I want you to say this, but I thought I shouldn't, and then I think I will.
Also, it made a lot of the first of the New Testament seem more of a kind of propagandistic, in the sense that they wanted you to become a Christian, you know, if you read this, you actually, my vision was, this Old Testament doesn't even want you to become a Jew.
They don't want you to ever become a Jew or not.
What they really want is that the Jews they got shoot the head better.
And they tell those scary stories.
So a family
You know, how badly they behave, then they don't say to you right off that they're behaving badly.
They say, well, you get the idea.
Of course, you don't get the idea until well after the New Testament has proliferated so much.
But I just thought I'd read this one part, this one poem, which I guess was something said in the book I read.
It was 900 years before the Common Era, as we said.
And it's in Judges and it's the story of
After Gideon, I want to think of that.
Every part of Judges begins and then the people forgot and began to forget and went there to a false cause.
Every single child would start with things like that.
They made them do that.
No sooner than they cleaned up their act, that's what they do.
So in this case, after Gideon won this battle, then he had 70 sons.
It's a very polite environment that says, the heirs, he had many words.
You know why.
And so, but one of the stuff that wasn't so good, it was a
And he proceeded to kill the others.
But he didn't do it right away.
He first asked the people, he went to his mother's town, and he asked them, would they prefer to have 70 of these?
was reigning over them, or would he just, um, how about, how about it was just him?
They, they felt a certain logic there.
I mean, they saw this problem with 70 people, so they said he should go down there.
So he said, okay.
But there was another son, one of his sons, and he saw how bad this son, Melophus, who, by the way, killed his father, Gideon, or Jeroboam, and Jocko, Jocko went out and he climbed the hill, and he stood on top of the hill,
Now, you have to understand that one of the reasons I like this is really because of my politics and because I believe in many speeches on soapboxes and I believe in doing that.
And one of the saddest things that's happened, I think, in my life was the end of the soapbox speaker in New York and I suppose everywhere else, naturally.
But, um... Excuse me.
It's a question.
But this is...
So he got up there, got up there to make his speech, and this is the one he made.
It's a really wonderful poem.
And it's a very, very old one, as I said.
And I'm sure there must be five people in this room who know everything about it, you know.
I learned that from being here for two days.
And they can tell me later.
Anyway, this is Jockum's speech, his poem speech.
If you've always made poem speeches, that would be good, too.
He says, now listen to me, you people.
The trees went forth, you think this album may all be so great, but listen to me.
The trees went forth on a time to a man who came over them, and they said unto the olive tree, rain thou over us.
But the olive tree said unto them, shall I leave my fatness, where with upon me they honor God and man and gold to be a promoter of the trees?
And the tree said to the fig tree,
Come now and bring all of us.
But the fifth tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness and my root fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come now and bring all of us.
And the vine said unto them, Should I eat my wine, which cheereth God the man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
Then set all the trees unto the bramble, Come thou and rain over us.
And the bramble said unto the trees, If there truth be in on me came over you, come and put your trust in my shadow.
And if not, let fire come out of the bramble and devour the seers of that one.
In the end,
In the end, the job we killed after that, and shortly before that, or after that, at the end of Judges, after telling all these stories, I read one of them until my friend's name this evening, he started it, and then I read it.
And it just said, well, this was before Israel had a king.
and every man did what was right in his own eyes.
Now I'm going to read me.
I'm going to read a couple of stories, and the first one, not very long,
I'm sorry.
I thought I'd hold it down.
I just saw a conversation at the end of the day.
A lot of people are used to reading under this book.
This story is called the Edward Story.
Jack asked me, isn't it a terrible thing to grow up in a shadow in another person's sorrow?
I suppose so, I answered.
As you know, I grew up in the summer sunlight of upward mobility.
This leeched out a lot to have brought ancestral grief.
He went on with this one.
It's not your fault that that's the case.
Your bad disposition is not your fault, yet you're always angry.
No way out, but continuous rage in a nut house.
What if this sorrow is all due to history, I ask?
The cool history of Europe, he said, in this way to show of ironic respect to one of my own things.
Jack, the whole world ought to be opposed to Europe for its cruel history and yet in favor of it because after about a thousand years it made once no sense.
Nonsense, he said objectively.
A thousand years of outgoing, persistent, material cruelty tends to make enemies before you have to deal with these enemies is good sense.
What then?
I'm here.
No one knows the power of good sense.
They haven't been built up or experimented insufficiently.
Well, I'm trying to tell you something, he said.
Listen, one day I woke up and my father was asleep in the crib.
I wonder why, I said.
My mother made him sleep in the crib.
All the time?
That time anyway, that time I saw him.
I wonder why, I said.
Because she didn't want him to cover, he said.
No, I don't believe that.
Who told you that?
I know it, he pointed his finger at him.
I don't believe it, I say.
Unless you have five babies all in a row, they have to get up at 6 a.m.
when they both hate each other.
Most people like their cousins who do that.
Ball shit.
She was trying to make them feel filthy.
Where were these balls?
I will never respond to that question.
Ask them in a worried way again and again if they become responsible for the destruction of the entire world.
I gave them two minutes of silence.
He said, misery, misery, misery, grayness.
I see it all very gray.
My mother reproaches the grave.
Small, he says, get up.
Run down to the corner and get me here for pound of potty's.
Then run over to the drugstore and get a two-pound copy of the world.
He answered, my father, scrunched like an old gray fetus, looks up and smiles, smiles, smiles at the bit.
How did you know what was going on, he asked.
You were five years old.
Why do you think what's going on?
I'll tell you.
It's not so hard.
Any dope who's had a normal life could tell you.
Anyone whose head hasn't been fermented, they've come close for 10 years of gluttonous analysis.
Any of them could tell you.
Tell me why, please.
The reason your father was sleeping in the crib was that you and your sister, who usually slept in the crib, had a scarlet fever, and needed a decent bed to warm up and sweat come to a fever, crisis, and either get well or die.
Who told you that?
He lamented me as though I was an enemy.
You fucking enemy, he said.
You always see things in a rosy light.
You have a rotten, rosy temperament.
You were like that in sixth grade.
One day you brought three American slaves to school.
That was true.
I made an announcement to the sixth grade assembly 30 years ago.
I said.
I thank God every day that I'm out in Europe.
I thank God I'm American-born and live on East 172nd Street, where there's a grocery store, a candy store, and a drug store on one corner, and on the same block, a shelf, and two doctors' offices.
One hundred and seventy seconds of you is a pile of shit, he said.
Every word is in my welfare except for you.
Thirty people have TV.
Citizens and non-citizens are like starving, including war.
Thank God capitalism led a war, it could pull out of your own feet there every now and then, and we'd all be dead.
I'm glad you're not totally brainwashed by stocks, bonds, and cash.
I'm glad that you still mention capitalism from time to time.
Because of poverty, brilliance, and the early appearance of lots of soft hair on face and crotch, my friend Jack was a noticeable Marxist and Freudian by the morning of his tough birthday.
In fact, his mind thickened with ideas.
I continued to put out more flags.
There were 28 flags that fluttered in different rooms and windows.
I had one tattooed onto my arm.
They had gotten together, but it looked like water because of the middle age.
I'm probably more radical than you are nowadays, I say, anyways, since I was not quite that of my professional children and carmen.
I therefore did not have to go into business for myself.
You damn fool.
Plenty of 1000s to say.
I can bring in gods, engineers, teachers, both of them.
Well, I believe I see the world as clearly as you do, I said.
Rosiness is not a worse figure of him than the unique gray of the view of the world.
Oh, yes.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, he said.
Do you know him?
Just listen.
My mother and father came from a small town in Poland that had three sons.
My father decided to go to America to one stay out of the army, two stay out of jail, three, save his children from everyday war and ordinary programs.
He was helped by the savings of parents, uncles, grandmothers, and settled by hundreds of thousands of others in that year.
In America, New York City, he lived a hard and hopeful life.
Sometimes he walked on Delancey Street.
Sometimes, like a bachelor, he went to the theater on 2nd Avenue.
Mostly he put his money away for the day he could bring his wife and sons to this place.
Meanwhile, he told that famine struck.
Not hunger, which all Americans suffered six, seven times a day, but famine, which tells the body to consume himself, first the fat, then the meat, the muscle, and the blood.
Famining up the bodies of the little boys pretty quickly,
My father meant my mother was old.
He looked at her hands.
There was no baby in her arms, no children dragging out her skirt.
She was not wearing her hair for too long, with black braids.
There was a cartwheel over her door with.
She had shaved her head and on the back were Orthodox brides.
They had been serious, advanced socialists like most of the youth of their town.
He took her by the hands and brought her home.
They never went anywhere alone, except to work with the orthodoxies.
They held each other's hands when they sat down at the table, even at breakfast.
Sometimes he patted her hand, sometimes she patted his.
He read the paper to her every night.
They're sitting at the edge of their chairs.
He's leaning forward, reading on that old gull of life.
Sometimes he smiles just a little.
Then he puts the paper down and takes both her hands in his, as though they knew warm.
He continues to read.
just beyond the table on their heads.
There is darkness in the kitchen, the bedroom, the dining room, the shadow of darkness, where, as a child, I lived my supper, did my homework, and went to bed.
I'm going to do this one, but I'd like to be a very, very slow one.
And then another one.
This one's called Mudder.
One day, I was listening to the AM radio.
I heard a song.
Oh, I long to see my mother in the doorway.
By God, I said, I understand that song.
I also long to see my mother in the doorway.
As a matter of fact, she did stand frequently in various doorways looking at me.
She stood one day, just so, at the front door, the darkness of the hallway behind her.
It was reader's day.
She said sadly, if you come home at 4 a.m.
when you're 17, what time do you come home when you're 20?
She asked this question that I knew.
She had begun her worried preparations for death.
She would not be present, she knew, when I was talking, so she wondered.
Another time, she stood in the doorway of my room.
I had just issued a political manifesto attacking the family's position on the Soviet Union.
She said, go to sleep, for God's sake, you damn fool, you and your conscience like you.
We saw it already, pop that thing.
In 1905, we guessed it all.
At the door of the kitchen, she said, you never finish your lunch, you run around sensible sleep.
Don't move to common you.
And she died.
Naturally, for the rest of my life, I would love to see her, not only in doorways, in a great number of places, in the dining room with my hands, at the window looking up and down the block, in the country garden among Villiers and Navigold, in the living room with my father.
They sat in comfortable leather chairs.
They were listening to Mozart.
They looked at one another, amazed.
It seemed to them they had just come over on a boat.
They had just learned the first thing which works.
It seemed to them he had just proudly handed in a 100% correct exam to the American anatomy professor.
It seemed as though she had just quit the shop for the kitchen.
I wish I could see her in the doorway of the living room.
She stood there for a moment.
Then she sat beside him.
They owned an expensive record player.
They were listening to Bob.
She said to him, Talk to me a bit.
We don't talk so much anymore.
And Tyree said, can't you see?
I saw maybe 30 people who were there.
Both sick, both poor, poor, poor, poor.
Listen to the music, he said.
I believe he once had perfect pitch.
And Tyree, he said.
And she died.
This story is called The Story Era.
Anyway, it's The Story Room.
I was going to write a whole bunch of stories, one called The Story Era, another story listening, you know, telling, things like that, but I don't know if it's got to.
The Story Era.
I'm trying to curb my cultivated individualism, which seemed for years so sweet.
It was my own song in my own world, and of course it may not be useful in the hard time to come.
So when Jack said at dinner, what's doing today with your dear love?
I decided to make an immediate public accounting of the day, not to water my brains with time spent in what it grows smart prior to the course.
I said, you will begin at the beginning,
Yes, he said, I've always loved the games.
Men do what they want.
No one knows if they will ever get over this.
Hundreds of thousands of words have been written, some free rents and some commissions.
No one knows.
But here he said, I like mills too.
Oh yes, I know.
I questioned him.
Is this due to age or the recent proliferation of newspaper articles?
I don't know, he said.
I wasn't wondering, but it seems to me that my father was a decent man with a typical non-confident.
It seems to me he had settled into a great appreciation in the middle, just about the time my mother said, well, really, to not goodbye.
Keep the children warm and let him, me, finish high school at least.
Then she kissed him, kissed us kids.
She said, I'll call you next week.
But he never did speak to any of us again.
What did she mean?
Now, I've heard that story maybe 30 times and I still can't bear it.
In fact, whenever I make a strong adversarial point in public, Jack tells it to grieve me.
Sometimes I begin to cry.
Sometimes I just make soup for me to read it.
Once I thought, I'll find his underwear.
I've heard that being done.
But I couldn't find the cord.
I haven't needed to iron in years because of famous American science, which gives us washing the mirror in one test tube and the earth gas in the other.
It's right here.
And the right test tube doesn't know what it's left test tube is doing.
And yes, it does look, Jack.
Therefore, I want to go on with the story, or perhaps begin it again.
Jack said,
What did you do today, my dear Lord?
I said.
My dear, in the late morning, I left our apartment.
The Times was folded on the doormen of 1A.
I could see that it was black, the earthquake, war, and project murder.
Clearly death had been successful everywhere, but none I saw when I stepped out the front door about an hour on the block.
Here is the springtime, partly because of the time of year, and partly because we have a self-involved, block-centric street association, which has lined us with sycamores and enhanced us with a mountain edge, two depots, and here and there because we are part of the whole, Idle Ample, City, St.
Louis.
I said to myself, what a day.
I think I'll run down to the school and pick up some comestibles.
But I actually thought that.
Had I simply gone to the store without thinking, the word commestible would never have occurred.
I would never imagine hungry, supper, nighttime, jack, greens, cheese, store, walk, street.
But I don't like this language, wheat and chan, with its widening pool of foreign genes.
And since I never have had any occasion to say commestible, it was pleasurable to think.
At the grocery store, I met an old friend who had continued his life as it had begun in the Alhambra, but not selfishly.
He had also ordered me like the real estate administration and had never spoken to the people.
Most artists do because they have very small audiences and are angry at those audiences for not enlarging themselves.
How do they do that?
I often ask him,
They have words of mouth, don't they?
Most artists previously will reply.
Well, first my friend and I talked about the lettuce boycott.
It was a really old boycott.
I told my friend, his name was Jim, all about the silk stocking boycott, which coincided with the Japanese devastation of Manchuria.
And the disappearance of the 6th Avenue L of the Japanese factory purposes had been returned a few years later, sometimes to the very same neighborhood, as shrapnel stuck in the bodies of some younger workers of my generation.
Did that be the pro-marker?
Yes, respectfully.
They were aware that I had witnessing information of events that had occurred when he was in grade school.
That respect gave me all the advantage I needed to be aggressive and critical.
I said, Jim, I've been wanting for years to tell you that I did not believe in the effectiveness of the way you had to get me screaming at those demonstrations.
I don't think the meaningless struggle has anything to do at all at a bracket.
You don't understand our soul, he said.
I believe the field is the handmaid of his evolution.
Did thou lay with me?
He referred to my correction by nodding his head.
He accepts criticism and grace words, as he can always meet with a smiling bumper of higher opinion.
Do you want to know more about our Tobey's name?
No, well, I shouldn't, but I've been awful busy.
Also, I may have once known a great deal about him.
In the last few years, all the characters of literature run together in my life.
Sometimes King Louisville occurs right next to Mrs. Fawcett.
At this point, the butcher said, what do you have, young lady?
I refused to tell him.
Jack, to whom made you remember, I was telling the day long story Monday.
Oh, God, no.
You didn't do that again.
I dare say it.
It's an insult.
You cannot say to a woman of my age who looks my age like you have your baby.
I should not answer him.
If you say that to someone like me, it really means, what do you want to do?
It better go past.
Are you getting like that now, two years?
Look, Jack, face facts.
I say the butcher meant well.
He meant no harm.
Eddie, he's not so bad.
He spends two hours coming to New York, Jersey, then he spends two hours going back.
I'm sorry for this long journey, but I screw in.
He mustn't say anymore.
Eddie, I said, don't talk like that.
I won't tell you where I want.
Whatever you say, Mommy, what do you have?
Well, could you cut me up a couple of fryers?
Sure, I wrote, he said.
I'll have a pork butt, said Jim.
By the way, you know, we're doing a show at City College this summer, not in the auditorium, in the biology lab.
There's no idea we can.
We had a fight trip, the most political thing we've done since scavenging.
Did I hear him say City College that day as he cut the little chicken's leg out of his side?
Well, when I was a boy, a kid, what we called City College, you know, it was CCNY then.
Well, we called it Suburbs by Citizens of New York.
Really, said Jim.
He looked at me.
Did I object?
Was I offended?
If I didn't know that the decision doesn't insult me, I said.
However, I understand that the clipping of criticism of young girls continues in Morocco to this day.
Jim has a shy side.
He took his fourth flight and said goodbye.
I had begun to examine the chicken lilies.
Sometimes they're tannered and red, but I understand it's not too bad.
Suddenly treadmill, Thomas appeared at my side and embraced me.
He's a famous fussy gourmet, and I was glad the butcher saw her affection and hugged.
Thought any good euphemisms lately, I asked?
Ah-ha, he said.
He still feels bad about his life in the language division that put the best upon him.
A year or two ago, Jack interviewed in a magazine called The Social Work Viewer, which ran prior to the issues before the first editor was hired by The Times.
That's still a fine periodical.
Great part of the exhibit.
Mr. Thomas, what is the purpose of the language tradition?
Well, Jack, it was organized to discontinue the English language as a useful way to communicate exact facts.
Of course, it was not the first or left organization to have attempted this, but it has had some success.
Mr. Thomas, is this an ironic statement made in the afterglow of the new on realism and a broad range of classified information that is made of your own thoughts?
Not at all, Jack.
It wasn't I who invented the expression Protective Reaction.
And with Eisenhower and that I had fought up while thousands of hydrogen bombs were being tucked into silos, it was not I who invented Atoms for Peace and its code name, Operation Weegees.
Could you give us at least one expression you invented to self-define or mitigate?
Jack, I screamed, salt upon, mitigate, and quit the disease.
Shut up, said Jack, and he turned to the interview.
Well, he asked.
But I don't said show well, Thomas.
I was asked to develop a word, a series of words, that can describe, denote any of the Latin American countries in a condition of change, something that will by its mere remnants neutralize or mock your evolutionary situation.
After consultation, brain-picking, and a daydream-appropriate ENIAC creation, I came up with Rebo State.
The word was split into conversations in Washington.
One or two journalists were glad to use it.
It was just lingo for a long time.
But you have no doubt seen the monograph, The Rebel Stationary Peasant in Brazil today.
Even you pinkos use it, not to mention Wasserman's political article, Rainforest, Still Water, and the Culture of the Middle State, which was actually featured in your journal.
Right on Treadwell, as our black brothers jointly said for a couple of years before handing back onions on for our saltification on mitigation.
Still, it's true.
Thomas could have gone as far as far happens to be in our time and generation.
Hundreds of ambitious, jobless college students have put in his tongue on Senior Defense Department and Recruiting Day.
But apart from cooking a lot of fish, he has chosen to go fall, quite often.
Some people around here think that the form, the energetic cleansing, the nasal passage, is the basic wisdom of ether.
Other people think that's not so.
But it reminded me as we waited, how's Gutsy?
Gus?
Oh yeah, she's in the hydroponics.
She's got all this fudge standing around with us.
We may never have to go shopping again.
Well, why'd you laugh, don't we?
I repeated this story to several others before the day was over.
I mocked Gussie to Jack.
I spoke of her mockingly to one or two strangers, and the fact that she was away away in the future.
I was ignorant.
It wasn't my ocean she was away in.
In fact, I am stuck here among my own vessels and pies.
Don't you wish you could rise powerfully above your time and name?
I'm sure we all try, but here we are, always slipping and falling down into them, speaking their narrow language of the subject, which is how to save the world and pick the business.
Or if I tread well, I said sadly, I'm glad they have some dreams.
The owner of our grocery was holding down the vegetables.
He made the lettuce look fresher than it was.
Little drops of water spilled on the broccoli beads among the heads among the green beady buds and were just the same size.
Orlando.
Jack was walking the door last week at 2 a.m.
and I was out at 7 a.m.
and you were here both times.
That's true, he said, I was.
Orlando, how can you do that?
How can you get to work?
How can you live?
How can you see your kids and your wife?
Can't, he said, maybe once a week.
Are you all right?
Yes.
He put down his hose and put my hand in his.
You see, he said, this is wonderful work.
This is crude.
I love all work that has to be the crude.
I'm lucky.
He dropped my hand and patted a baked cabbage.
Look at me.
I'm a small businessman.
I got an A&P on one side, a Bo-Pak on another, and a fancy international for a cheese and herring down the block.
If I don't quit it 16 hours a day, I'm dead.
But Mrs. A, just look at that grass, the beans, that corner with all the parsley and the olive oil and the dill.
It's beautiful, right?
Oh yeah, I guess, I guess it is.
What I really love are the little bunches of WordPress, the way you mind the character.
Yeah, this is a, you're okay, you got the idea, the beauty, he says.
I went both to take three and various strawberries out of the perfect box.
A couple of years later, in the present, which I cannot quite mention, but will be fought over Chilean plums be part of it.
I was forced to shop in the reasonable supermarket among disinterested people with no credit asked and non-office.
But at that particular moment, we were at peace.
That is, I owed him $275 and he allowed it.
Okay, said Jack.
If you and Orlando are such power, if one owned movie store is right.
He picked up a rabbit green and moved one.
I invented an anthropological reply.
Well, Orlando's father is an old man.
One of the jobs Orlando's culture has provided for his father's old age is the drawing of strawberries into pint and cord boxes.
Just to be fair, he has to hide one or two greenish ones in each box.
I think I'm going to beg, said Jack.
But I was only extrapolating from his article in the third issue of the Social Appear, who's merchandising, or who intended to be a consumer, are reminding him of this, he said.
So he slept, his arms around me as sweetly as after the long day he probably slept beside his former wife and might as well beside mine instead of me.
I was so comfortable, our good mattress and our nice feelings were such a cozy combination that I remembered a song my friend Ruthie had made up ten years earlier to tease the time, the place, us.
Oh, the marriage bed, the marriage bed.
Can you think of anything nicer?
For days and nights of years and years, you lie beside your darling.
Your arms are hugging, my mother.
Your legs are torn together.
Until the dark and certain day, your lover comes to take you away, away, away.
At about 5 a.m., Jack cried out in terror.
That's okay, Kibber stated.
You're not the only one.
Everybody's mortal.
I weaved all my softening strength against his skated back.
Then I dreamed the following in a kind of diorama that you tell the abstraction.
That the children had grown all the way up, one had moved to another neighborhood, the other to a distant country.
That one was never to be seen again, the dream explained, because he had blown up a very bad bank, and in the dream, I was the one who told him to do it.
The dream continued.
No, it circled itself, widened into my very old age.
Then his disappearance made one of those typical spiraling descents influenced by film textbooks.
Unleashable at the bottom, their childhood played more and made jokes.
I woke.
Let's go after the water, I think.
I want to touch something, Jack.
Run, run, run, run, he saw my wide awake on his sweat.
Jack, I want to have a baby.
Ha, ha, he said.
You can.
Too late.
A couple of years too late, he said, and fell asleep.
Then he spoke.
He started proposing work.
I mean, proposing miracle.
A kid might be very smart, get a scholarship at MIT, and get caught up in problem solving.
I don't mind if a kid could invent something worse than anything else I would ever imagine.
Then he fell asleep and snorted.
I pulled the Old Testament out from under the bed where I keep most of my bedtime literature.
I jammed an extra pillow under my neck and sat it off almost straight in order to read the story of Abraham and Sarah with interlinear intelligence.
There was a lot more Jack's day.
He often makes it sensible of what we're all going to want, because you don't have that little story on these clowns.
Because to me, Monty is the horseman of perpetual Boston and war, Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.
Just the same, I said the softly snoring to Jack.
Before all that popular badness waged its way into the world, it was first a little baby, Isaac.
Remember what I mean for Miss Sarah?
Like all our old boys, remember the way they practiced their Bible sentences?
Oh Jack, that Isaac, Sarah's boy, before he was old enough to be taken out by his father to get a throat cut,
He must have just laid around smiling and making up diphthongs and listening.
And the women sang so long to him and wrapped him up in such pretty rugs, right?
In his sleep, which is as contentious as his waking, he said, yes, but he should not have been allowed to throw all that sand at his brother.
You're right.
Jack, you're right.
I'm waiting for you, I said.
However, all you have to do is be with me.